docs: add java mqtt client tutorial (#1479)
asyncapi/generator: apps/generator/docs/generator-template.md

Temperature rise detected 66943992 sent to temperature/risen
```

## Creating a Java template

Looking for more?

> This section will guide you in creating a flexible MQTT-supported template that will generate a **Java** client from the template and the AsyncAPI document above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section guides you through creating a flexible MQTT-supported template that will generate a **Java** client from the template and the AsyncAPI document referenced above.
```

> The follow steps will be similar to the [initial steps](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/generator-template#overview-of-steps) but with a few differences. This will help developers practice with AsyncAPI generator tool using statically typed language **Java**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps are similar to the [initial steps](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/generator-template#overview-of-steps) but with a few differences. This will help developers practice with AsyncAPI generator tool using statically typed language **Java**.
```

## Java Prerequisites

To run it, ensure you have Java JDK 8 or higher, Gradle, and the AsyncAPI generator.
- **Gradle** -Get gradle at https://gradle.org/install/ 
- **JDK** -Get jdk at https://www.oracle.com/ca-en/java/technologies/downloads/

## Overview of Java Template

In this section, you'll:

1. Create new directory to run java code.
2. Create the java client.
3. Output Java template code.

> 4. Creating more channels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create more channels
```

        System.out.println("Validating generated generated Client.java");
        System.out.println("Running tests in test.java");
        System.out.println("Sending temperature changes to the broker...");
        System.err.println("\n");
        while (true) {
            int randomId = random.nextInt(maxValue - minValue + 1) + minValue;
            client.sendTemperatureChange(String.valueOf(randomId));
            System.out.println("New temperature detected " + randomId + " sent to temperature/changed");

            try {
                TimeUnit.SECONDS.sleep(1); // Sleep for 1 second
            } catch (InterruptedException e) {
                e.printStackTrace();
            }
        }
    }
}
```
Run the command `gradle run -PmainClass=test` to run your java program with gradle on your terminal. You should see output similar to the snippet below logged on your terminal:

``` cmd
New temperature detected 64250266 sent to temperature/changed
New temperature detected 36947728 sent to temperature/changed
New temperature detected 72955029 sent to temperature/changed
```
### 3. Output Java template code.

> Open [**index.js**](#java - indexjs-file) and copy the content of [**client.py**](#1-create-the-client) and replace `{asyncapi.info().title()}` with it. It should look like the code snippet below now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open [**index.js**](#java - indexjs-file), copy the content of [**client.py**](#1-create-the-client) and replace `{asyncapi.info().title()}` with it so it looks like the code snippet below:
```

  {
    `import org.eclipse.paho.client.mqttv3.*;

public class Client {
    private static final String BROKER_URL = "tcp://test.mosquitto.org:1883";
    private static final String TOPIC = "temperature/changed";

    private MqttClient client;

    public Client() {
        try {
            // Generate a unique client ID
            String clientId = MqttClient.generateClientId();
                    
            // Create and connect the MQTT client
            client = new MqttClient(BROKER_URL, clientId);
            MqttConnectOptions options = new MqttConnectOptions();
            options.setCleanSession(true);
                    
            client.connect(options);
            System.out.println("Connected to MQTT broker: " + BROKER_URL);
        } catch (MqttException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
     public void sendTemperatureChange(String id) {
        try {
            // Publish the message with the temperature change
            MqttMessage message = new MqttMessage(id.getBytes());
            client.publish(TOPIC, message);
        } catch (MqttException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}`
  }</File>
}
```

> ##### b. Write script to run the test code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### b. Write the script to run the test code
```

> In **package.json** you can have the scripts property that you invoke by calling `npm run <your_script>`. After adding these scripts in **package.json**, it will look like the following code snippet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In **package.json** you can define a scripts property that you invoke by calling `npm run <your_script>`. After adding these scripts in **package.json**, it will look like the following code snippet:
```

Temperature rise detected 66943992 sent to temperature/risen
```

## Creating a Java MQTT client template

Looking for more?

This section guides you through creating a flexible MQTT-supported template that will generate a **Java** client from the template and the AsyncAPI document referenced above.
The following steps are similar to the [initial steps](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/generator-template#overview-of-steps) but with a few differences. This will help developers practice with AsyncAPI generator tool using statically typed language **Java**.

## Java Prerequisites

To run it, ensure you have Java JDK 8 or higher, Gradle, and the AsyncAPI generator.
- **Gradle** - Get gradle at https://gradle.org/install/ 
- **JDK** - Get jdk at https://www.oracle.com/ca-en/java/technologies/downloads/

## Overview of Java Template

In this section, you'll:

1. Create new directory to run Java code.
2. Create the Java client.
3. Output Java template code.
4. Create more channels

> ### 1. Create new directory to run Java code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Create a new directory to run Java code
```

Create a new directory called **java-mqtt-client-template** at the root of your project. This is where all your java templating work will go.

> Once that is done you should create some new sub-directories to begin building your Java client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once that is done, you should create new sub-directories to begin building your Java client.
```

  1. Create a new subdirectory called `src`
  2. Change into `src` and create two new subdirectories: `fixtures` and `main/java/template`.

>   3. Create a file named asyncapi.yml in your fixtures directory and paste the asyncapi.yml document mentionned [above](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/generator-template#background-context) into it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. Create a file named `asyncapi.yml` in your fixtures directory and paste the `asyncapi.yml` document mentioned [above](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/generator-template#background-context) into it.
```

  4. Create a new file named **package.json** in your **java-mqtt-client-template** directory. This file is used to define the **dependencies** for your template.
  5. Create a new file called **build.gradle** in your **java-mqtt-client-template** directory. This file is used to build your generated java code for your template.
  6.  Create a new file named **index.js** in your **template** directory. This file is used to define the **logic** for your template.

Now your directory should look like this:

```
java-mqtt-client-template 
├── src
|   └── fixtures
|       └── asyncapi.yml
│   └── main/java
├── template
|   └── index.js
└── package.json
└── build.gradle
```

> Note: the **client.java** code must be in your **src/main/java** directory, or else gradle won't build your applicaiton.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: The **client.java** code must be in your **src/main/java** directory, or else Gradle won't build your application.
```

### java - package.json file

> Add the following code snippet to your package.json file:

Reviewer: Hey @ssala034 , for the file names, you’re mixing the use of backticks`` and asterisks **. Please use `` to reference files and directories in the docs as stipulated in the formatting guide here -> https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/community/styleguide/formatting

> Use code style for filenames, directories, and paths. For example: Go to the `/docs/tutorials` directory.

```json
{
    "name": "java-mqtt-client-template",
    "version": "0.0.1",
    "description": "A template that generates a java MQTT client using MQTT.",
    "generator": {
      "renderer": "react",
      "apiVersion": "v1",
      "generator": ">=1.10.0 <2.0.0",
      "supportedProtocols": ["mqtt"]
    },
    "dependencies": {
      "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
    },
    "devDependencies": {
      "rimraf": "^5.0.0"
    }
}
```

> Navigate to the **java-mqtt-client-template** directory. Run the command `npm install` on your terminal to install the dependencies specified in **package.json**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the `java-mqtt-client-template` directory and run the command `npm install` on your terminal to install the dependencies specified in `package.json`.
```

### java - index.js file

The **index.js** file is used to define the logic for your template. Inside the template folder, create an **index.js** file and add the code snippet below:

```js
//1
import { File } from '@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk'
//2
export default function ({ asyncapi }) {
//3
  return <File name="Client.java">{asyncapi.info().title()}</File>
}
```

> To see this in action, navigate to the **java-mqtt-client-template** directory. Then, run `asyncapi generate fromTemplate src/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output src/main/java` command on your terminal. Should get the same sucess message and a **Client.java** file in **src/main/java**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see this in action, navigate to the `java-mqtt-client-template` directory. Then, run `asyncapi generate fromTemplate src/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output src/main/java` command in your terminal. You should get the same success message and a `Client.java` file in `src/main/java`.
```

> **NOTE: Nothing different has occurred so far**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: Nothing different has occurred so far
```

### 2. Create the java client

  ##### a. Setting up gradle

> The first step in creating the Java client to send messages using the MQTT protocol is to ensure that your build.gradle file includes the correct dependencies Add the code snippet below into your **build.gradle** file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step in creating the Java client to send messages using the MQTT protocol is to ensure that your `build.gradle` file includes the correct dependencies. Add the code snippet below into your `build.gradle` file.
```

```groovy
plugins {
    id 'java'
    id 'application'
}

repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    implementation 'org.eclipse.paho:org.eclipse.paho.client.mqttv3:1.2.5'
}

application{
    mainClass = project.hasProperty('mainClass') ? project.mainClass : 'Client'  // Default to 'Client' if no property is passed
}
```

Here's what is contained in the code snippet above:

> - **pluggins** - This section defines the plugins applied to the Gradle project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **plugins** - This section defines the plugins applied to the Gradle project.
```

  - **id 'java'** - This applies the Java plugin, which allows you to compile and run Java code.
  - **id 'application'** - This plugin is used to support building and running applications. It helps with creating an executable JAR.
- **repositories** - This section tells you app to fetch dependencies from Maven Central to retrieve the MQTT client library.

> - **dependencies** This specifies that the project depends on the Eclipse Paho MQTT client version 1.2.5 and is needed to compile and run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **dependencies** This specifies that the project depends on the Eclipse Paho MQTT client version 1.2.5 and is needed to compile and run.
```
```suggestion
- **dependencies** - This specifies that the project depends on the Eclipse Paho MQTT client version 1.2.5, which is needed to compile and run.
```

> - **application** - This section defines how the application should be executed. **mainClass** specifies the main class to be executed in a java application. It can be specificec via CL, else it defaults to **Client.java** file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **application** - This section defines how the application should be executed. **mainClass** specifies the main class to be executed in a Java application. It can be specified via the command line else it defaults to the **Client.java** file.
```

> Navigate to the `java-mqtt-client-template` directory. Run the command `gradle build` on your terminal to build your java application. Note: everytime you update the build.gradle you must recmopile it to get the new changes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the `java-mqtt-client-template` directory. Run the command `gradle build` in your terminal to build your Java application. **Note**: Every time you update the `build.gradle` file, you must recompile it to get the new changes. 
```

  ##### b. Beefing up Client.java

> Here is the sample code to be pasted in the Client.java you generated above running the `asyncapi generate fromTemplate src/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output src/main/java` command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the sample code to pasted into the `Client.java` file you generated above running the `asyncapi generate fromTemplate src/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output src/main/java` command. 
```

import org.eclipse.paho.client.mqttv3.*;

public class Client {
    private static final String BROKER_URL = "tcp://test.mosquitto.org:1883";
    private static final String TOPIC = "temperature/changed";

    private MqttClient client;

    public Client() {
        try {
            // Generate a unique client ID
            String clientId = MqttClient.generateClientId();
                    
            // Create and connect the MQTT client
            client = new MqttClient(BROKER_URL, clientId);
            MqttConnectOptions options = new MqttConnectOptions();
            options.setCleanSession(true);
                    
            client.connect(options);
            System.out.println("Connected to MQTT broker: " + BROKER_URL);
        } catch (MqttException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
     public void sendTemperatureChange(String id) {
        try {
            // Publish the message with the temperature change
            MqttMessage message = new MqttMessage(id.getBytes());
            client.publish(TOPIC, message);
        } catch (MqttException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```

  ##### b. Test Client.java

> Create a **src/main/java/TestClient.java** file in your project and add the code snippet below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a **src/main/java/TestClient.java** file in your project and add the code snippet below.
```

> Now your directory should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your directory should now look like this:
```

└── build.gradle
```

```java
import java.util.Random;
import java.util.concurrent.TimeUnit;

public class TestClient {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Client client = new Client();
        Random random = new Random();

        int idLength = 8;
        int minValue = (int) Math.pow(10, idLength - 1); // Minimum 8-digit number (e.g., 10000000)
        int maxValue = (int) Math.pow(10, idLength) - 1; // Maximum 8-digit number (e.g., 99999999)
        System.out.println("Validating generated generated Client.java");
        System.out.println("Running tests in TestClient.java");
        System.out.println("Sending temperature changes to the broker...");
        System.err.println("\n");
        while (true) {
            int randomId = random.nextInt(maxValue - minValue + 1) + minValue;
            client.sendTemperatureChange(String.valueOf(randomId));
            System.out.println("New temperature detected " + randomId + " sent to temperature/changed");

            try {
                TimeUnit.SECONDS.sleep(1); // Sleep for 1 second
            } catch (InterruptedException e) {
                e.printStackTrace();
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> Run the command `gradle run -PmainClass=TestClient` to run your java program with gradle on your terminal. You should see output similar to the snippet below logged on your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the command `gradle run -PmainClass=TestClient` to run your Java program with Gradle on your terminal. You should see output similar to the snippet below logged on your terminal:
```

> Run the command `gradle run -PmainClass=TestClient` to run your java program with gradle on your terminal. You should see output similar to the snippet below logged on your terminal:

Reviewer: Hey @ssala034 please capitalize all the instances you reference Java and Gradle throughout this file :)

Author: Will do

public class Client {
    private static final String BROKER_URL = "tcp://test.mosquitto.org:1883";
    private static final String TOPIC = "temperature/changed";

    private MqttClient client;

    public Client() {
        try {
            // Generate a unique client ID
            String clientId = MqttClient.generateClientId();
                    
            // Create and connect the MQTT client
            client = new MqttClient(BROKER_URL, clientId);
            MqttConnectOptions options = new MqttConnectOptions();
            options.setCleanSession(true);
                    
            client.connect(options);
            System.out.println("Connected to MQTT broker: " + BROKER_URL);
        } catch (MqttException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
     public void sendTemperatureChange(String id) {
        try {
            // Publish the message with the temperature change
            MqttMessage message = new MqttMessage(id.getBytes());
            client.publish(TOPIC, message);
        } catch (MqttException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}`
  }</File>
}
```
##### b. Write the script to run the test code

> In **package.json** you can deine a scripts property that you invoke by calling `npm run <your_script>`. After adding these scripts in **package.json**, it will look like the following code snippet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In **package.json** define a script property that you invoke by calling `npm run <your_script>`. After adding these scripts in **package.json**, it will look like the following code snippet:
```

``` json
   {
    "name": "java-mqtt-client-template",
    "version": "0.0.1",
    "description": "A template that generates a java MQTT client using MQTT.",
    "generator": {
      "renderer": "react",
      "apiVersion": "v1",
      "generator": ">=1.10.0 <2.0.0",
      "supportedProtocols": ["mqtt"],
      "parameters": {
            "server": {
              "description": "The server you want to use in the code.",
              "required": true
            }
        }
    },
    "scripts": {
        "test:clean": "rimraf src/main/java/Client.java",
        "test:generate": "asyncapi generate fromTemplate src/fixtures/asyncapi.yml ./ --output src/main/java --force-write --param server=dev",
        "test:start": "gradle run -PmainClass=TestClient",
        "test": "npm run test:clean && npm run test:generate && npm run test:start"
    },
    "dependencies": {
      "@asyncapi/generator-react-sdk": "^0.2.25"
    },
    "devDependencies": {
      "rimraf": "^5.0.0"
    }
  }
```
Run `npm test` to see if everything is working.
### 4. Create more channels

> ##### a. Creating more resuable componenents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### a. Creating more reusable components
```

> ##### a. Creating more resuable componenents

Reviewer: Please use Grammarly to proofread and correct the spelling mistakes in the docs

> Similar to the previous `TopicFunction` function we will create a function to make resuable components no matter the amount of channels in the asyncAPI document. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to the previous `TopicFunction` function we will create a function to make reusable components regardless of the number of channels in the asyncAPI document. 
```

> Create a **components** directory at the root of your project and create a file named `TopicFunction.js` and put the code snippet below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a **components** directory at the root of your project and create a file named `TopicFunction.js` and add the code snippet below:
```

```js
/*

>  * This component returns a block of functions that users can use to send messages to specific topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * This component returns a block of functions that users can use to send messages to specific topics.
```

>  * As input it requires a list of Channel models from the parsed AsyncAPI document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * It requires as input, a list of Channel models from the parsed AsyncAPI document.
```

 */
export function TopicFunction({ channels }) {
  const topicsDetails = getTopics(channels);
  let functions = '';

  topicsDetails.forEach((t) => {
    functions += `
    public void send${t.name}(String id) {
        String topic = "${t.topic}";
        try {
            MqttMessage message = new MqttMessage(id.getBytes());
            client.publish(topic, message);
            System.out.println("${t.name} change sent: " + id);
        } catch (MqttException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }\n`;
  });

  return functions;
}
  
  /*

>    * This function returns a list of objects, one for each channel with two properties, name and topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * This function returns a list of objects, one for each channel, each containing two properties: `name` and `topic`.
```

>    * name - holds information about the operationId provided in the AsyncAPI document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * name - holds information about the `operationId` definedin the AsyncAPI document
```

>    * topic - holds information about the address of the topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * topic - holds information about the topic's address.
```

   *

>    * As input it requires a list of Channel models from the parsed AsyncAPI document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * As input it requires a list of Channel models from the parsed AsyncAPI document
```
```suggestion
   * As input it takes a list of Channel models from the parsed AsyncAPI document
```

    public Client() {
        try {
            // Generate a unique client ID
            String clientId = MqttClient.generateClientId();
                    
            // Create and connect the MQTT client
            client = new MqttClient(BROKER_URL, clientId);
            MqttConnectOptions options = new MqttConnectOptions();
            options.setCleanSession(true);
                    
            client.connect(options);
            System.out.println("Connected to MQTT broker: " + BROKER_URL);
        } catch (MqttException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }

    ${topicMethods}

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Client serviceClient = new Client();
                
        // Simulate sending a temperature change
        //serviceClient.sendTemperatureDrop("Sensor-1: 25°C");
    }
}`
    }
    </File>
  );
}
```

Now your directory should look like this:

```
java-mqtt-client-template 
├── components
|   └── TopicFunction.js
├── src
|   └── fixtures
|       └── asyncapi.yml
│   └── main/java
|       └── Client.java
|       └── TestClient.java
├── template
|   └── index.js
└── package.json
└── build.gradle
```

> ##### b. Updates AsyncAPI document with more channels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### b. Update AsyncAPI document with more channels
```

> Add the follow AsyncAPI document to have more channels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following AsyncAPI document to have more channels:
```

servers:
  dev:
    url: tcp://test.mosquitto.org:1883
    protocol: mqtt

channels:
  temperature/dropped:
    description:  Notifies the user when the temperature drops past a certain point.
    publish:
      operationId: temperatureDrop
      message:
        description: Message that is being sent when the temperature drops past a certain point.
        payload:
          type: object
          additionalProperties: false
          properties:
            temperatureId:
              type: string

  temperature/risen:
    description: Notifies the user when the temperature rises past a certain point.
    publish:
      operationId: temperatureRise
      message:
        description: Message that is being sent when the temperature rises past a certain point.
        payload:
          type: object
          additionalProperties: false
          properties:
            temperatureId:
              type: string

components:
  schemas:
    temperatureId:
      type: object
      additionalProperties: false
      properties:
        temperatureId:
          type: string

```
##### c. Update TestClient.java

> We must now update the **TestClient.java** file to test the different channels in the AsyncAPI document above. The tests will be similar to the previous ones we performed. Paste this code snippet into your **TestClient.java** file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We must now update the **TestClient.java** file to test the different channels in the AsyncAPI document above. The tests will be similar to the previous ones you performed earlier. Paste the following code snippet into your **TestClient.java** file:
```

}
```

Run `npm test` to validate that everything works as expected. You should see logs similar to the snippet below in your terminal:

```cmd
Connected to MQTT broker: tcp://test.mosquitto.org:1883

Validating generated generated Client.java
Running tests in TestClient.java
Sending temperature changes to the broker...
TemperatureDrop change sent: 43289900
Temperature drop detected 43289900 sent to temperature/dropped
TemperatureRise change sent: 43289900
Temperature risen detected 43289900 sent to temperature/risen
```

## Where to go from here?

Great job completing this tutorial! You have learnt how to use an AsyncAPI file to create a Python MQTT template and used it with the Paho-MQTT library in Python to connect to an MQTT broker and publish messages.😃

If you want to tinker with a completed template and see what it would look like in production, check out the [Paho-MQTT template](https://github.com/derberg/python-mqtt-client-template/tree/v1.0.0) and/or [Java-MQTT-client-template](https://github.com/ssala034/Java-MQTT-client-template). You can also check out the accompanying [article about creating MQTT client code](https://www.brainfart.dev/blog/asyncapi-codegen-python).

> You can also check out the [MQTT beginners guide](https://medium.com/python-point/mqtt-basics-with-python-examples-7c758e605d4) tutorial to learn more about asynchronous messaging using MQTT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check out the [MQTT beginners guide](https://medium.com/python-point/mqtt-basics-with-python-examples-7c758e605d4) tutorial to learn more about asynchronous messaging using MQTT.
```
